# Don’t let your words be hijacked
Ideologues tend to make their position seems stronger by being slippery with how they use words.  It can superficially seem like they are refuting your position, but in reality they are only talking over you.  The appendix to George Orwell’s 1984 has useful insight into this.  Orwell demonstrates how an idea can become impossible to express by manipulating the language.  Orwell writes: “To give a single example. The word free still existed in Newspeak, but it could only be used in such statements as ‘This dog is free from lice’ or ‘This field is free from weeds’. It could not be used in its old sense of ‘politically free’ or ‘intellectually free’ since political and intellectual freedom no longer existed even as concepts, and were therefore of necessity nameless.”

This tactic relevant today as it is used to reverse progress societies make.  For example, one of our greatest advances came in the form of this idea by Martin Luther King, Jr:  “I have a dream that my four children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character.”  This idea derives its power from the principle of meritocracy, that is, it is valid to judge one on their individual choices, but not their un-chosen collective attributes, in this case ancestry.  This idea so clearly defeats racism that it seems impossible for anyone to argue for racism without looking utterly ridiculous.  However, if we are not vigilant there is a way around the stigma.  What if “racist” were redefined to “one having power plus privilege”?  In that case, it would be possible to advocate for treating individuals differently based on their skin color without incurring the stigma of being labeled a “racist”.

But it is important to remember that this is only possible if we let it be possible.  When making an argument, if someone hijacks your words, be clear about what you meant by those words.  If they insist on using different meanings, that is their right of free speech, but remember you are under no obligation to surrender your right to free speech by speaking their language.  They can either address your actual argument, or you can expose them as misrepresenting your argument.  If someone is advocating special privileges for a group based on ancestry rather than merit, they are a racist, and deserve all the stigma that goes with that word.
Your words are how you communicate the power of your ideas, do not surrender them to bad ideas, protect your freedom of speech.

